# Polar Research Station Social Dynamics
Here, I make an attempt to study the network dynamics of polar research stations. The dataset represents the social networks of crews working at the Amundsen Scott South Pole station at the beginning of the Austral winter (March) and at the end of the winter (October) in terms of reports of social interactions. 

I compute cohesion metrices to compare the changes in social connectivity that occurred between the crews over the course of the Austral winter. I also analyze the dataset for the end of winter specifically for centrality metrics.

I conclude that there were far fewer communications between stations (i.e., connections) after winter. This is as shown by fewer edges (density), fewer cliques and triangles (clustering coefficient), fewer triads (transitivity), and fewer 2-way interactions (reciprocity). This can be potentially be attributed to less reasons for discussions among teams. Since they worked at polar research stations, after the winter, they really do not have that much reason to communicate as they would during winter.

In terms of analyzing the dataset after winter, all centrality measures point to uniformity in terms of connections, but these differ in terms of node size. The largest nodes in the Eigenvector centrality graph are those that are connected to highly connected nodes (e.g., 17, 18, 4, and 6). It is also noteworthy to mention that node 7 is one of the least “influential” in this regard. The largest nodes in the betweenness centrality graph are those that are “important” because many other nodes go through them to “communicate most efficiently” with other nodes in the network. Node 7 is important in this respect, whereas nodes 17, 18, and 4 are not as important in this regard (and node 6 is much less important in this regard). The largest nodes in the closeness centrality graph are those that are “important” because they can “reach other nodes quickly” in the network. Here we see that almost all the nodes are the same size, meaning that (for the most part) everyone can get to everyone else equally well. In all, there is a fair balance in the prestige attached to each team member. It is a fairly connected and important network.
